In general, if you're thinking about
applying machine learning to a data set,
it's a really good first step to
actually look at the data set first,
maybe using some simple
visualization methods.
Or even simply scrolling through to look
at the various values in the different
rows before proceeding.
And there are several reasons for
doing this.
First, it's helpful to simply get a sense
for what's actually in the data set.
because it may be that in inspecting
the features of each object,
you might get a better idea
of what type of cleaning or
preprocessing still needs
to be done to the data.
And of the range of values or the
distribution of values that is typical for
each attribute or each feature.
This initial exploration can be especially
valuable when you're dealing with complex
objects like text that may be represented
by many features that are extracted using
a series of several pre-processing steps.
For example, you might discover that
the data set you got has a single column
with person's name that still needs to
be split into two separate first and
last name columns.
For example, if you're using the name
as one of the prediction feature,
that might be important.
Second, you might notice missing or
noisy data.
Or maybe some specific inconsistencies,
such as the wrong data type being used for
a column.
Incorrect or
inconsistent units of measurement for
a particular column, particular feature.
Or maybe you'll notice that there
aren't enough examples of a particular
labeled class.
You might notice, for example, that
some measurements of a person's weight.
Let's say you're doing a health
application with a patient record for
each row.
Some might accidentally have the weight in
grams instead of kilograms and so forth.
And that can make obviously
a huge difference [LAUGH] in how
accurate your results are.
So inspecting and visualizing
the data will help you detect and
understand these potential
source of noise or errors.
And finally, it might turn out that for
your data set, your problem is actually
solvable without machine learning.
Now, this doesn't happen all that often.
But if it does,
you can save yourself considerable time
by simply looking at what
data exists in your data set.
So one scenario, your data set might
actually contain a feature of that,
is clearly a strong indicator of
the label that you want to predict.
For example, if your goal was to
predict whether a house's location was
in New York City versus San Francisco
based on attributes like its sales price,
its elevation above sea level,
how big its rooms are and so forth.
It could be that your data
set might also include,
let's say a URL to a photo of the house.
And that image might
contain GPS coordinates to
the house within its metadata.
Or maybe the URL encodes location
in a slightly non-obvious but
human recognizable way
that you can pick out.
And you solve your problem
just by looking at the data.
So, as I said, this scenario isn't
all that common, but it does happen.
And so, a brief check of your data set
could save you a lot of unnecessary work.
Okay, so we'll make sure we've got
a training set from our original set
using train test split.
And we'll do all our initial visualization
and feature analysis on this training set.
And we're only going to
use the test set for
actually evaluating
the classifier once it's trained.
This complete separation of training and
test sets is very important and
we'll go into more depth later about
specific reasons why it's
important in a later class.
So now that we have a training set
selected, let's create some simple
visualizations to look at how the features
in the objects in the training set,
in our case different fruits,
relate to each other and to the labels.
So with these visualizations,
we get at least two major benefits.
First, we can get an idea of the range
of values that each feature takes on.
And we could immediately see any unusual
outliers that are very different from
other points.
And that might indicate noise or
a missing feature or
other problem with the data set.
And second, we may be able to get a better
idea how likely it is that a machine
learning algorithm could do well at
predicting the different classes.
By seeing how well clustered and
well separated the different types
of objects are in feature space.
So feature space refers to
the representation of an object
using specific features that are in
certain columns of the data that we have.
So for example, if the features for
objects with the same label, for example,
all the lemons have
similar feature values,
we should see a well-defined cluster
appear in the visualization.
While if the features for
objects that have different labels
tend to be quite different,
we should see these well separated into
visibly different areas of the plot.
So having objects whose classes
are well defined and well separated in
feature space is a good indication
that suggests the classifier is likely
to be able to predict the class label
from the features with good accuracy.
Now the visualization techniques that
I'll be showing here work well when you
have a relatively small number of
features, let's say less than 20.
Later, when we cover unsupervised
learning, you'll learn how to create
visualizations of data sets that use
a very large number of feature dimensions,
so hundreds or even thousands or
millions, to represent each object.
But for now, the first visualization tool
we'll use is called a feature pair plot
and that's shown here.
So this plot shows all possible pairs of
features and produces a scatter plot for
each pair, showing how the features
are correlated to each other or not.
Each point in the scatter plot
represents a piece of fruit,
colored according to
the class it belongs to.
And positioned using the parafeatures
assigned to that scatter plot.
Along the diagonal is a histogram showing
the distribution of feature values for
that feature.
So in this pair plot, the dimensions shown
here in order are, height, width, mass.
And color score of the fruit
examples in our training set.
So the upper left corner of the histogram
here shows the distribution
of the height feature for
all samples in the training set.
And the scatter plot to its immediate
right plots the width of each sample
on the x-axis and
the height of the sample on the y-axis.
Just by looking at this pair plot, we can
already see that some pairs of features,
like the height and color score in
the top right corner here, are good for
separating out different classes of fruit.
And this suggests that a classifier
that was trained using those
features could likely learn to classify
the various fruit types reasonably well.
Here's the code that we'll
use to create this plot,
and let's run this now
on our training set.
Note that a pair plot like this
does not show interactions between
all features that might exist,
just between pairs of them.
So the plot itself may not show
all the interesting relationships
that do exist between the features.
But it does give you a rough idea of some
of the interactions that might exist.
We can also look at features that use
a subset of three features by creating
a three dimensional plot.
And here's the code that
we can use to do this.
So in this example, we plot different
fruits using three coordinates.
So here we'll the show the width,
the height, and the color score.
Here again, each point represents
a single piece of fruit and
its color according to
its fruit label value.
So in this 3D plot,
you could actually rotate the plot
along the various axes by holding down
the mouse button and then dragging.
And you can clearly see that
the different fruit types
are in pretty well-defined clusters that
are also well-separated in feature space.
So now that we've taken a look at
the data, next we'll look at a simple
prediction task for
this data set in a bit more detail.